Throughout making the map, I have learned lots about tilemaps and tilemap layers.

At first, I struggled with working through Z indexes and visibility. My ground and my props had to be on different layers, and my player had to be on one too. I learned that Z indexes and different tile map layers can be valuable when trying to layer assets and make a map look complete.

I also worked with collision within different tiles, adding physics layers into my tilesets. I learned about making objects look realistic, like with my houses. If I made every tile have full collision, you couldn't go behind the house at all. But by making just the 2 bottom rows have collision, it looked much more realistic as you could go partially behind the house. These little lessons helped make the game look more polished in the end.

Once I had mastered the basics, the issue of branching out came up. I only had a small starting area, but we needed a big open world area in order for our game to have an appropriate amount of content, some real substance. I decided to branch out towards the right, making a path that stretched across the new land I acquired. I wanted the player to have some choice, so I made it branch upwards and downwards.

I decided to develop the upwards direction of the path first. I wanted to make a forested area, and I was troubled by my current assets. I felt they weren't enough, so I decided to take a trip back to itch.io and grab some more assets for my new forest. I got some trees, shadows, and a big new village asset pack. I utilized all of these in my forest, trying to fill the space with trees as much as I could. I wanted the village to feel hidden within the mystique of the forest, so I implemented a winding path through the trees, eventually leading to a sign pointing you in the direction of the village.

Starting the village was tough for me. I wanted it to have life, but without any NPCs in our game, that was tough. So I decided to use lots of the decoration that the asset pack included, like flowers and mossy rocks. This helped me make my village look alive without any actual people inside it. I figured this space could be used for an objective in the future, like a lost item you had to fetch.

Next, I wanted to develop the downward path. I thought about making another biome, like a desert area or something of the sort. But I remembered how Gavy and Zane had been talking about making a dungeon area, since we initially wanted to make a Zelda-like game. So instead of developing the downward area, I decided to open an entirely new scene, and name it dungeon, while calling my main one overworld.

I didn't know what I wanted the dungeon to look like, but I had decided on the asset pack from itch.io, a dark area with a purple tint. I really had trouble making the map in my mind, but I knew that I wanted it to be branching everywhere, with lots of dead ends. I had a great idea. I downloaded one of those little mazes you see on children's coloring books, and blew it up to about 8x the size. I decreased the opacity, and designed my maze by copying the walls and the path from this children's maze. Surprisingly, this worked very well and the dungeon looked great.

Lastly, I made a portal to connect the two worlds, by using the downwards path to lead towards it. The portal was the only code I wrote throughout the whole project, and it was pretty trivial to write. I was glad that it wasn't a huge problem to make the portal. I made the final touches by adding an ocean layer around the whole overworld, and giving it collision so that you couldn't go off the map. With this last development, my map was finished and I pushed it to main. All that is left now is to add the enemies and items to the map.