Sprint 1: 
Durring the first sprint, I began organizing the team, along with begining my own work. I wored mainly on the main character, its attack, and its dash this sprint. I learned a bit about ray casts and coding them as I overcame struggles with my dash clipping the player into walls and out of bounds.
Sprint 2:
Durring this sprint, I began to work on eneimes. I decided to give all my enemies a semi basic level of intelligence, as they can wander around can detect obstacles in their way. This was a bit tricky, but taught me more about vecors, as the enmies use vectors to create a raycast in the direction they are moving to detect obstacles. Once an enemy finds a player, it will track the player unil the player is out of range for more than 3 seconds, or behind a wall for more than 3 seconds. I created a slime that splits into other slimes, using knowlege from my tower defence project. I also made a wolf that gets stronger the more of them you defeat. Eneimies are fun for me to work on.
Sprint 3:
Durring this sprint, I worked on the golem and all the finishing touches. The golem is the strongest enemy in the game, it is also the most intelligent enemy, and will attack other enemies. The golem is a ranged enemy, and has the added intelligence of walking away from it's target, if its target gets too close. Adding a neutral enemy was difficult and made me redo the take damage code in the base enemy class. I did this so other eneimes could attack the golem if it attacks them first. The golem is the only enemy in the game with bugs, as sometimes when defeating an enemy, it loses the ability to attack until all other targets leave its range. I also worked on the other finishing touches to the game, such as dying. I wanted dying to not resart the whole game, so it insteads only restarte the level you are on. I also didn't want dying to erase your bonus health, so I used global varriables to make max health persevere through death. I created a portal which costs money to acess. This portal and the dying both use call deffered, for perfomance inprovements. I created the victory and menu. I made the menu with knolege I learend after making the menu from the platformer, as this menu is much more optimised that that one.
Final Thoughts:
Overall this project was very fun to work in, and it was an exiting experience to build an RPG, I learned many things about working in a group. Along with things about custom signals, static bodies, coding eneimes, and even a bit about resorces. I did like my team for this project and overall thought that we worked well together. I can't wait for the next project! I look forward to applying all I learned to make an amazing game!
